---EXTENDING YOUR NETWORK---

--Intro to Port Forwarding--
Port Forwarding - opens specific ports to connect apps/services to the internet.

--Firewalls 101--
Firewall - device within network to determine what traffic is allowed to enter/exit.
  1)where is the traffic coming from? (accept/deny from a specific network)
  2) where is traffic going to? (accept/deny traffic destined for specific network)
  3) What port is traffic for (accept/deny based on specific port)
  4) What protocol is traffic using? (accept/deny traffic that is UDP, TCP, or both)

Firewalls perform packet inspection to determine answers to these questions.

Dedicated pieces of hardware or software

2 Categories:
1) Stateful - uses entire info from connection, rather than individual packet
    Consumes many resources in comparios to stateless FWs
    If host connection is bad, it will block the entire device
2) Stateless - static rules to determine whether or not INDIVIDUAL PACKETS are acceptable or not.
    If sending device sends a bad packet, will not necessarily mean entire device is blocked
    Dumber than Stateful FWs
    Great when receiving large amounts of traffic from a set of hosts (DDoS)

--VPN basics--
Virtual Private Network - allows devices on separate networks to communicate securely by creating a tunnel over the internet. Devices within the tunnel form their own private network.

Pros:
  Allows networks in different geographical locations to be connected
  Offers privacy. Encryption prevents sniffing, traffic only understood between devices in tunnel.
  Offers anonymity. 

VPN technologies:
  PPP - allows for authentication and provide encryption of data. Pirvate key and certificate must match to connect.
    non-routable; cannot leave network by itself
  PPTP - Point-to-Point Tunneling Protocol - allows data from PPP to travel and leave the network
    Weakly encrypted, easy to set up
  IPSec - Internet Protocol Security - encrypts data using the existing IP framework.
    Strong encryption, difficult to set up

--LAN Networking Devices--
Routing - data travelling across networks by creating a path between networks for delivery.
  L3 of OSI
  Often feature an interactive interface for configuration

Routing path factors:
  Shortest path
  Most reliable
  Fasest medium (copper/fiber)

Switches - connects multiple devices via ethernet cables.
  Can operate at L2 and L3 of OSI, these are exclusive (L2 cannot operate L3)
  Soley resposible for sending frames to correct device

L3 Switches - send frames to devices (as L2 does) and route packets to other devices using the IP protocol

VLAN - Virtual Local Area Network - allows specific devices with a network to be virtually split up.
