----HOW THE WEB WORKS----
---HTTP IN DETAIL---
--What is HTTP(S)--
HTTP - HyperText Transfer Protocol - protocol that specifies how a web browser and a web server communicate.
  Developed by Tim Berners-Lee between '89-'91
HTTPS - HTTP Secure - Data is encrypted to prevent sniffing and integrity that the correct web server is in communication

--Requests and Responses--

Browswers request to web server assets such as HTML, images, and download the responses.
  Before that, you need to tell the browser specifically how and where to access these resources - URL

URL - Uniform Resource Locator
http://user:password@tryhackme.com:80/View-room?ID=1#task3
Scheme    User       host/domain  port  path   query  fragment

Scheme - instructs on what protocol to use to access resource (http/https/ftp)
User - Some services require authentication to login, you can put the user and pw into URL to login
Host - domain name or ip address of server
Port - Port you're going to connect to, usually 80 for HTTP and 443 for HTTPS (can be any port between 1-65535)
Path - file name or location of resource trying to access
Query String - Extra bits of info that can be sent to requested path (/blog?id=1, tells blog path you with to receive the blog article with id of 1)
Fragment - reference to a location on the actual page requested.
  commonly used for pages with long content and can have a certain part of the page directly linked to it, so it is viewable to user as soon as they access the page

-Making a Request-
Possible to make request to web esrver with just one line: GET / HTTP/1.1
  Request Method + HTTP Protocol Version + page being requested

Example Request:
GET / HTTP/1.1

Host: tryhackme.com
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 Firefox/87.0
Referer: https://tryhackme.com

Line 1 - request sends GET method, requests the home page with / and telling web server we're using HTTP version 1.1
Line 2 - we tell the web server we want tryhackme.com
Line 3- we tell web server we're using Firefox version 87 browser
Line 4 - We are telling web server the page that referred us to this one is https://tryhackme.com
Line 5 - HTTP requets always end with a blank line ot inform the web server that the request has finished

Example Response:
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

Server: nginx/1.15.8
Date: Fri, 09 Apr 2021 13:34:03 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 98


<html>
<head>
    <title>TryHackMe</title>
</head>
<body>
    Welcome To TryHackMe.com
</body>
</html>

Line 1 - HTTP 1.1 is the Version of the HTTP the server is using and then followed by HTTP Status Code in this case "200 OK" which tells us request was successful
Line 2 - web server software and version number
Line 3 - current date, time, and timezone of web server
Line 4 - Content-Type header tells client what sort of info is being sent (HTML/images/videos/pdf/XML)
Line 5 - Content-Length tells client how long the response is, we can confirm no data is missing
Line 6 - HTTP response contains a blank line to confirm end of HTTP resonse
Lines 7-14 - info that has been requested (in this instance the homepage)

--HTTP Methods--
Ways for client to show their intended action when making HTTP request. GET amd POST are most common.

GET Request - gets info from web server
POST Request - submitting data to web server and potentially creating new records
PUT Request - submitting data to web server to update info
DELETE Request - deleting info/records from web server

--HTTP Status Codes--

100-199 - Information Response	- These are sent to tell the client the first part of their request has been accepted and they should continue sending the rest of their request. These codes are no longer very common.
200-299 - Success -	This range of status codes is used to tell the client their request was successful.
300-399 - Redirection	- These are used to redirect the client's request to another resource. This can be either to a different webpage or a different website altogether.
400-499 - Client Errors	- Used to inform the client that there was an error with their request.
500-599 - Server Errors	- This is reserved for errors happening on the server-side and usually indicate quite a major problem with the server handling the request.

Common HTTP Status Codes:

200 - OK	- The request was completed successfully.
201 - Created	- A resource has been created (for example a new user or new blog post).
301 - Moved Permanently	- This redirects the client's browser to a new webpage or tells search engines that the page has moved somewhere else and to look there instead.
302 - Found	- Similar to the above permanent redirect, but as the name suggests, this is only a temporary change and it may change again in the near future.
400 - Bad Request	- This tells the browser that something was either wrong or missing in their request. This could sometimes be used if the web server resource that is being requested expected a certain parameter that the client didn't send.
401 - Not Authorised	- You are not currently allowed to view this resource until you have authorised with the web application, most commonly with a username and password.
403 - Forbidden	- You do not have permission to view this resource whether you are logged in or not.
405 - Method Not Allowed	- The resource does not allow this method request, for example, you send a GET request to the resource /create-account when it was expecting a POST request instead.
404 - Page Not Found	- The page/resource you requested does not exist.
500 - Internal Service Error	- The server has encountered some kind of error with your request that it doesn't know how to handle properly.
503 - Service Unavailable	- This server cannot handle your request as it's either overloaded or down for maintenance.

--Headers--

Additional bits of data you can send to web server when making requests

Common Request Headers (sent from client to server)

Host - Some web servers host multiple websites so by providing the host headers you can tell it which one you require, otherwise you'll just receive the default website for the server.
User-Agent - This is your browser software and version number, telling the web server your browser software helps it format the website properly for your browser and also some elements of HTML, JavaScript and CSS are only available in certain browsers.
Content-Length - When sending data to a web server such as in a form, the content length tells the web server how much data to expect in the web request. This way the server can ensure it isn't missing any data.
Accept-Encoding - Tells the web server what types of compression methods the browser supports so the data can be made smaller for transmitting over the internet.
Cookie - Data sent to the server to help remember your information (see cookies task for more information).

Common Response Headers:

Set-Cookie - Information to store which gets sent back to the web server on each request (see cookies task for more information).
Cache-Control - How long to store the content of the response in the browser's cache before it requests it again.
Content-Type - This tells the client what type of data is being returned, i.e., HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Images, PDF, Video, etc. Using the content-type header the browser then knows how to process the data.
Content-Encoding - What method has been used to compress the data to make it smaller when sending it over the internet.

--Cookies--

Cookie - Small piece of data store on computer.
  Saved when you receive a "set-cookie" header from web server
  Each further request sends cookie data back to web server
  Because HTTP is stateless (doesn't keep track of previous requests), cookies remind web server who you are, some person settings for the website or whether you've been there before.
  Most commonly used for website authentication
  Cookie value is a token (unique secret code that isn't easily humanly guessable)
